Initiate the git in the local folder/directory


git init  						
git remote add origin <git link>                             origin is the referring name for git link
git remote -v 				                                     to verify remote location 


Git pull <git link> <branch>


——-Adding, Committing and Pushing ——-
git add file_name or git add . 		                	      to add all the file
git commit -m “commit message in present tense”

git push origin branch_name
git push origin main 
Or
git push -u origin main 			                     		to set origin main as upstream




Branch:

Git branch 								    	                  	to check branch
Git branch -M main 						    	                  rename the branch from master to main
Git branch -d branch_name				             	         to delete any branch
Git checkout -b branch_name				                     creating branch
Git checkout new_branch_name			            	         checkout to other branch
Git checkout branch_name^				              	         Head move to parent of branch_name

Git log
Git logs hash id
Git show
Git blame file_name


———————————Merging:———————————
Merging in Git creates a special commit that has two unique parents. A commit with two parents essentially means "I want to include all the work from this parent over here and this one over here, and the set of all their parents."


Git diff
Git merge origin branch_name


——————————-Reverting———————————-

Git reset —hard commit_id
Git revert ~1
Git revert commit_id                         add one more commit

Difference between git revert and reset?
Difference better git fetch and git pull? Explain with example
What is rebase in git and where it is used?

Detaching HEAD
Detaching HEAD just means attaching it to a commit instead of a branch



You can directly reassign a branch to a commit with the -f option. So something like:
git branch -f main HEAD~3
moves (by force) the main branch to three parents behind HEAD.
Note: In a real git environment git branch -f command is not allowed for your current branch.



What is git checkout HEAD~1? Why we can not use git branch -f HEAD~1? Explain command and its use: git branch -f bugfix HEAD~1?



start a working area (see also: git help tutorial)
   clone      Clone a repository into a new directory
   init       Create an empty Git repository or reinitialize an existing one

work on the current change (see also: git help everyday)
   add        Add file contents to the index
   mv         Move or rename a file, a directory, or a symlink
   restore    Restore working tree files
   rm         Remove files from the working tree and from the index

examine the history and state (see also: git help revisions)
   bisect     Use binary search to find the commit that introduced a bug
   diff       Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc
   grep       Print lines matching a pattern
   log        Show commit logs
   show       Show various types of objects
   status     Show the working tree status

grow, mark and tweak your common history
   backfill   Download missing objects in a partial clone
   branch     List, create, or delete branches
   commit     Record changes to the repository
   merge      Join two or more development histories together
   rebase     Reapply commits on top of another base tip
   reset      Reset current HEAD to the specified state
   switch     Switch branches
   tag        Create, list, delete or verify a tag object signed with GPG

collaborate (see also: git help workflows)
   fetch      Download objects and refs from another repository
   pull       Fetch from and integrate with another repository or a local branch
   push       Update remote refs along with associated objects

'git help -a' and 'git help -g' list available subcommands and some
concept guides. See 'git help <command>' or 'git help <concept>'
to read about a specific subcommand or concept.
See 'git help git' for an overview of the system.






Q: What would you do if you urgently needed information from someone working in a drastically different timezone (who was almost certainly asleep)? (They asked me this a few different times in slightly different ways.)

Q: Hello support! My business has an internal Git server used for deployments. We have an internal Git server and we also use GitHub. For workflow purposes, how do I sync my repository to GitHub and and the internal Git server?






c445758d (HEAD -> main, origin/main, origin/b2, origin/HEAD, b2) updated drupal to 10.2.0
1eb091c9 updated drupal to 10.2
10ff9d6a added more space in txt file
881bf3fd (origin/b1, b1) added space in txt file
e39ae6b8 added proper space to text.txt
059264e8 adding content in text file in b1 branch only
117a0681 added text file
c598a33b enable admin toolbar
92fce8bc After drush cr
25e6952d Upgraded to D10.1.8 but pathauto is not working
bc1634ea commiting all changes
ad34e9cd delete twig
c1984648 clone ddev repo and add readme file
97463ba6 pushing for ddev_drupal